
         HSKinter - Chinese Words Study (HSK 1-4) on Desktop and Phone


INSTALLATION

Unpack .tar.gz file into a folder.

Make sure your system has Python 2, Python 3 or Pydroid 3 installed.

On Android it makes sense to change the line 'pydroid=False' of 'hskinter.py'
to 'pydroid=True' to hear the pronunciation.

For sound you will also need gTTS installed (use Pydroid's terminal or shell):

    pip install gTTS

On desktop you should additionally install playsound (Android uses Kivy libs):

    pip install playsound

You can also use the same packages from your operating system distribution.

Your system may need additional Chinese fonts installed to show the characters
properly.


LAUNCHING

On most systems with Python and Tkinter installed, the application should run
out of the box in mute mode. Just launch (click) the file 'hskinter.py'.

Alternatively, you can open 'hskinter.py' in IDLE (typically comes with
Python) and press F5 to run it.

Or you can open your shell, change to the unpacking directory and enter:

    python hskinter.py

On the phone, open 'hskinter.py' in Pydroid and press the yellow '>' button.


USAGE NOTES

The same user should run the program in the same writable directory with files
'hsk.json' and 'hsk' (the latter is automatically created user's statistics).
You can use multiple independent copies of the program in several directories.

Click or tap the elements of the window to get explanation or action tip.

The program typically starts in flashcard mode, press 'OK' to go to the next
word. Use this mode when you're not familiar with most of the words in an
HSK level.

You can enter 'hsk1', 'hsk2' etc to turn HSK levels on or off. Any combination
is allowed for both flashcard and practice mode. To switch several levels to
the opposite mode, enter 'hsk1-3', 'hsk2-4' or similar.

It is possible to use only the first NN% of an HSK level. To do this, type
'hskN.N' or 'hskN.NN' and press enter. For example, to select the first 10%
of HSK 2 (15 words, to be exact), enter 'hsk2.1' or 'hsk2.10'. If you need
only 1% of HSK 4 (6 words), enter 'hsk4.01' etc. This is especially useful
at higher HSK levels where the number of new words can easily become
overwhelming. To set the percentage for several HSK levels simultaneously,
enter 'hskN-N.N' or 'hskN-N.NN', e.g. 'hsk1-4.01' (1% of each HSK).

By default, all 100% of each level are used when you turn them on or off.
To get back this 100% state of a level, enter 'hskN.0'. When you type 'hsk',
the current percentage of all active levels is shown as a reminder. The same
per cents are applied to both flashcard and practice mode.

In both modes, the program sorts the words by their level of accuracy for
the last 9 answers (Lvl), then by age in full days, and finally by their
cumulative (historical) error level. Words are picked from the list
randomly, with mild preference for the top of the list. The last 10 words
shown/answered are checked to avoid too much repetition in a row.

To limit the list to pick to certain number of words, enter 'sp4n' followed
by a number. For example, to pick only among 100 weakest and oldest ones, use
'sp4n100'. You can turn the limitation off by entering 'sp4n0', then all
the words are used for picking. Typing 'b4ck' shows the previous flashcard
(just one).

To test your knowledge, click '?' or type 'fl4sh', and you will enter the
practice mode. Now you can type a translation of the word shown. If there
are multiple translations, you can enter either of them. Answer accuracy
is indicated immediately. Press 'OK' to save the answer to the internal stats
and move on to the next word. If there was a shorter answer for that hanzi,
the program may occasionally hint you at that.

You may sometimes prefer entering the hanzi itself, instead of its meaning,
then the program will simply compare it to the original characters. This way
you can practise your Pinyin input skills. It makes sense to do it in another
copy of the program, starting from scratch.

Answering via pinyin with tones specified is also possible. The tones can be
specified as numerals at the end of a syllable (1-4 and 0 or 5 for neutral),
or one of the characters "-/_\.", e.g. 'hao3' or 'hao_' for '好'. The space
between the syllables is optional. The neutral tone should be typed in
explicitly.

An alternative practice mode is turned on and off by clicking on 'Y / N' or
by typing in 'ye5no'. It only accepts 'y' (yes) and 'n' (no) as answers for
the meaning shown.

If the meaning/pinyin of a flashcard or the question of 'yes/no' mode get
replaced with stats or other info, you can reshow them by clicking on the
hanzi.

The recommended learning approach is to add 15 to 25 new words at a time
(2%-10% depending on HSK level, e.g. 'hsk1.10', 'hsk3.05', 'hsk4.03'), then
to cycle through their flashcards for a day or two, having set the 'sp4n' to
the same or slightly bigger number (~15-25), and finally to bring the levels
of all the new words to 9 in the practice mode. As you approach the goal, the
old words will start to appear, allowing you to maintain them too. When
confident enough, restart this learning cycle by adding another dozen or two
('hsk1.20' etc).

To get the retaining statistics, you should click the word 'Lvl', or you can
type 'st4ts'. It shows you the current number of words for each retaining
level (0 is the worst remembered--never answered correctly for the last 9
questions, 9 is the best--9 correct answers out of recent 9). Only currently
used HSK levels and their per cents are counted in the stats.

Exit the program by clicking 'Exit', by pressing Esc key or by closing the
window (on desktop), not by tapping 'Back' on Pydroid 3. Otherwise, it won't
save the changes of this session to 'hsk' file.

If the entry box above it is not empty, the 'Exit' button turns into 'Clear'.
You can use it instead of double tapping a word to delete the whole phrase
that was entered via voice recognition.

The total numbers of cards shown, errors, answers given, 'sp4n' size and
current mode of the program are stored on exit in 'hsktot' file. Click the
numbers on the screen to reset them to zero. Every 25th card or question
is marked with red colour.

It's better to avoid rotating the phone when the program runs, or Pydroid
may abort the session.

To turn the sound on, click '< )' or type 's0und'. To use sound by default,
change 'soundon=False' to 'soundon=True' in 'hskinter.py'. The font of the
hanzi is adjustable too ('lab.config(font=("Helvetica", 30))')

You need to be online to fetch Google's pronunciation of a word shown for the
first time with sound turned on. This pronunciation is immediately stored
into a newly created 'gtts' folder as a tiny MP3 file. Next time the word is
pronounced using the saved file (cached). The words are pronounced AFTER the
answer on purpose, to avoid memorising only the sound of a hanzi instead of
its appearance.

If all the pronunciations of your current HSK levels have already been fetched
(you have 150, 300, 600 or 1200 MP3 files in 'gtts' directory), you can use
the program offline with sound turned on. You can also copy the whole 'gtts'
directory to another system or device and use it with another copy of the
program, it should work fine.

The file 'hsk.json' is human readable and editable (UTF-8), its format is
pretty intuitive (hanzi, answers, alternative answers, 0, 0, pinyin, HSK
level).

It is advisable to regularly backup your personal stats file 'hsk'. Newer
versions of the program are backward compatible with the format of the file,
so you can just copy your stats to a newer version's directory.

